---
title: "Daily tip #7"
date: 2023-10-31
---

## Tip of the day #7

If you are still not happy with my last tip about documentation, I will give you another chance.
Do you know you can add package documentation with package-info.java file?

It will create a javadoc and will help your coworkers to understand why you packaged a group of classes.

### Bônus: 

If your company allows you to use an IA tool, you can ask chatGPT, CodePilot or "paste your tool here" to generate it for you:

- I used chatGPT

Here is how it works:

Take a public package like this one: (if you like it, give me a star =D )

https://github.com/brunobaiano/temporal-tdc/tree/main/createAccount/src/main/java/com/github/brunobaiano/createAccount/workflows

Say to chatGPT: I will give you two classes in the same package, and you will create a package.info for me

chatGPT: Certainly! Please provide me with the two classes in the same package, and I'll create a package-info.java file for you with appropriate documentation. Once you share the classes, I'll proceed to create the documentation.

Paste the content of 2 classes and hit!

chatGPT: Here is the package-info.java file for you:

```java
/**
 * Package containing workflows for creating user accounts.
 * <p>
 * This package provides workflows that enable the creation of user accounts using Temporal,
 * a workflow orchestration framework. The workflows are designed to be used in conjunction
 * with the Temporal service to manage the execution and coordination of the account creation process.
 *
 * <p><b>CreateAccountWorkflow Interface</b></p>
 * The {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.workflows.CreateAccountWorkflow} interface
 * represents the workflow for creating a user account. It is annotated with {@link io.temporal.workflow.WorkflowInterface},
 * indicating that it defines a Temporal workflow.
 *
 * <p><b>Workflow Method</b></p>
 * The {@link io.temporal.workflow.WorkflowMethod} annotation is used on the {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.workflows.CreateAccountWorkflow#createAccount()}
 * method to designate it as the main entry point for the account creation workflow. The method should be implemented
 * to perform the steps required for creating a new account, and it will be orchestrated by the Temporal service.
 *
 * <p><b>Usage</b></p>
 * To use the workflows in this package, you need to set up a Temporal worker that listens to the workflow tasks
 * and executes the defined workflows. The worker should register the {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.workflows.CreateAccountWorkflow}
 * interface as the target for the account creation workflow.
 *
 * <pre>{@code
 * // Example Temporal Worker Setup
 * CreateAccountWorkflow accountWorkflow = Workflow.newWorkflowStub(CreateAccountWorkflow.class);
 *
 * // Start the account creation workflow
 * Account account = accountWorkflow.createAccount();
 *
 * // Account creation process will be orchestrated by the Temporal service
 * // ... (more code to interact with the workflow)
 * }</pre>
 *
 * <p><b>CreateAccountWorkflowImpl Class</b></p>
 * The {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.workflows.CreateAccountWorkflowImpl} class implements
 * the {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.workflows.CreateAccountWorkflow} interface. It contains the workflow's logic,
 * including the orchestration of activities to create a new account.
 *
 * <p><b>Activities</b></p>
 * The account creation workflow interacts with several activities, such as {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.activities.AccountActivity},
 * {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.activities.PersonActivity}, and {@link com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.activities.CreditCardActivity}.
 * These activities are used to perform specific tasks in the account creation process.
 *
 * <p><b>Retry Options</b></p>
 * The workflow specifies a set of {@link io.temporal.common.RetryOptions} for handling activity failures.
 * This includes settings for initial interval, maximum interval, backoff coefficient, and maximum attempts
 * for activity retries in case of failures.
 *
 * <p><b>Activity Options</b></p>
 * The workflow also defines {@link io.temporal.activity.ActivityOptions} for activities, including the start-to-close
 * timeout and customized retry options. These options determine when to automatically timeout activities and how
 * to handle activity retries.
 */
package com.github.brunobaiano.createAccount.workflows;

