---
title: "Daily tip #21"
date: 2023-12-11
---

## Tip of the day #21

Use flatMap to avoid nested Collections. 

Remember tip #18 groupingBy. You have a Map<String, List<Account>> mapAccount after the groupingBy. 

Imagine that you need a big ONE list of accounts. If you try mapAccount.values() you will have List<List<Account>> and this is not the desirable result.

For this, you can use flatMap:

````java
    System.out.println(accountMap.values()); // List<List<Account>> 
    System.out.println(accountMap.values().stream().flatMap(Collection::parallelStream).toList()); // List<Account>
```` 


### What is it?

The flatMap method definition is hard to read and understand:

Returns a stream consisting of the results of replacing each element of this stream 

with the contents of a mapped stream produced by applying the provided mapping function to each element.

````java
    flatMap(Function<? super T,? extends Stream<? extends R>> mapper)
````
You will need to pass a function, that will be applied in your stream, and it will return something for you.

Let's see our method again:

````java
    accountMap.values().stream().flatMap(Collection::parallelStream).toList()
````
Now we have a Collection<List<Account>> and flatMap is an intermediate operation - this is why to get the final List we use

the toList() to consume the final stream and create a final List.

From the doc we can have a better definition:

The flatMap() operation has the effect of applying a one-to-many transformation to the elements of the stream, 

and then flattening the resulting elements into a new stream.

So to understand, when I call values().stream() I create a Stream<List<Account>>, and when
I call flatMap(Collection::parallelStream), each List<Account> will become a Stream<Account> and "appended" in sequential order.
So I can have different order in each List - because of the parallel, but not between the lists.

Hope this helps you, if not, try to see the How to section.

### How to

Take a look in [repo-tip-20](https://github.com/brunobaiano/tip-of-the-day/tree/main/tip-20) to see a real example of today's tip.
